##### UPW/Protocol/UEP-9: Network Time <br> Rev#0: 3/31/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Network Time

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-1 |
|:----|:-----|

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-8 |
|:----|:-----|



## Motivation
Timestamp is an essential metadata in social contents, which is especially important for sorting in conversation and feeds.
Clocks in local devices rely on central time server or might be unreliable, which is not directly used on UPW protocols.

In UP4W network, a network time is established and agreed on across peers, which assumes local time in majority of
peers is correct with a slight unbiased error of a few seconds.

## Correcting Local Clock
The network time is modeled as an unknown time shift $s$ to the local device clock $t$, which is estimated from 
time correction samples collected from other peers. 
The `peer_desc` field in valid DHT reply messages (UEP-1) and nearby peers ping-pong messages (UEP-8) carries a reported time $r_i$.
Upon receiving, a time correction sample is derived as $\Delta s_i = r_i + c_i/2 - s - t$, in which $c_i$ is the
round-trip latency of the peer $i$.

After $n$ time correction samples collected from different peers, the new time shift $s'$ will be updated as
$$
s' = s + \frac{1}{\theta} \cdot \frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=0}^{n-1} \Delta s_i
$$
, in which $\theta \ge 1$ is a damping coefficient to regularize the updating of $s$.

## Skip Outliers
After first update of $s$, its deviation of correction samples $d$ will be estimated as 
$$
d = \sqrt{ \sum_{i=0}^{n-1} \left( \Delta s_i - \overline{\Delta s} \right)^2 }
$$
Any future samples with $ \left|\Delta s'\right| > 2d$ will be discarded as outliers, which may caused by an error 
in the remote peer or an attacker.
Similar to the estimation of time shift, subsequent updating of the deviation $d'$ will also be damped with $\theta$ as 
$$
d' = d + \frac{1}{\theta} \cdot \left( \sqrt{ \sum_{i=0}^{n-1} \left( \Delta s_i - \overline{\Delta s} \right)^2 } -d \right)
$$

## Stabilization
The time shift $s$ and its deviation $d$ is continuously estimated and corrected in batch-wise as more time
correction samples received. Starting with $\theta=1$, the updating dumping will increase gradually with a cap to enforce the
stabilization of the network time estimation. 

After first update or any subsequent update, if the local device time $t$ is not deviate too much from the network time
($s < 2d$) the local peer will start to report local time to other peers in DHT reply messages and nearby peers ping-pong messages
with a non-zero `local_time` $ = (t + s/2)$, which allows local time of stabilized peers to propagate in the entire network through
multi-hop time correction across peers.




###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons