##### UPW/Communication/UEP-2: IPv6 Extension <br> Rev#0: 3/28/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# IPv6 Extension

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-1 |
|:----|:-----|

## Motivation
UPW stack leverage both IPv4 and IPv6 as the underlying communication network. 
Based on DHT IPv6 extension [1], UPW maintains two DHT routing tables of peers in IPv4 and IPv6 respectively. 
As a result, we observed a single device will be treated as two or more peers since multi-hole devices are very
common on IPv6 enabled Internet. In UPW, these ghosting peers will be detected and merged as a single peer to avoid
making duplicated slot in active peer list and redundant data transmission in broadcast.

## Unified DHT Address
A peer in the UP4W network has a single DHT address used to join DHT networks of both IPv4 and IPv6.

## Alternative IP Disclosure
In every query and reply message of *get_peers* and *ping*, an `altip` key is added with a fixed 6-byte or 18-byte binary value
in the top level dictionary.
When sending a message to a peer on IPv4 network, the `altip` key is 
```
"... 5:altip18:<IPv6_address:16bytes><port:2bytes> ..."
```
while sending to IPv6 network, the `altip` key is 
```
"... 5:altip6:<IPv4_address:4bytes><port:2bytes> ..."
```
Note that, the alternative IP disclosed is the public IP observed and reported by other peers based on the `ip` key 
introduced in security extension [2].

## DHT Address Disguise
An active peer in the peer list will not be replaced when a new peer with the same DHT address but different IP addresses.
Same rule is applied when a device is running on IPv4 and IPv6 Internet simultaneously to prevent address disguise.

Optionally, a device may prioritize usage of one network over another network, which allows an active peer to be 
replaced by a peer with its disclosed alternative IP if it is preferred. 


## Reference
[1] BitTorrent DHT Extensions for IPv6 (BEP-0032) http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0032.html <br>
[2] DHT Security extension (BEP-0042) http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0042.html

###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons