##### UPW/Security/UEP-3: Secure Peer Discovery <br> Rev#0: 3/28/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Secure Peer Discovery

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-1 |
|:----|:-----|

## Motivation
Eclipse attacks [1] are common vulnerability for all P2P network that trick the local peers to keep contact with only 
malicious peers.
Countermeasures are introduced in UP4W network to defense against such attacks that secures a swarm as more honest peers
joined over malicious peers.

## Peer Selection
After a swarm turns mature, the local peer has discovered sufficient number of peers. Any additional peers newly discovered
will either replace existing peers or be dropped without sending any response back. 
Our approach is based on the strategy of selecting a preferred peer and dropping unfavored ones regarding certain optimization goal,
which avoids malicious peers to easily gain preferred position over honest peers.

### Optimizing Latency
A low latency peer is preferred, which also benefits the efficiency of data propagation as latency is largely correlated with bandwidth.
An eclipse attack will likely to fail unless sufficient number of attacker peers are deployed colocated with the victim peer.

On the other hand, purely latency based peer selection may result in a local cluster that is disconnected from all other peers
in the swarm (disconnected sub-graph), and hinders swarm-wide data synchronization.

### Optimizing Secure Distance 
A peer having DHT address $A$ close to an internal secret address $H_s$ is preferred.
When a local peer joins a swarm, a random, undisclosed, secret DHT address is generated in local for measuring the *secure distance*
to any discovered remote peer. The distance is defined as the number of unmatched bits $(160 - popcount(A \oplus H_s))$.
Since $H_s$ is unknown to malicious peers, it is hard to fabricate a DHT address that is preferred over all existing peers of 
the victim peer, which make eclipse attack quite difficult.

As a 160-bit random number, the DHT addresses will not clustering and optimizing secure distance results in diversified connections
and a connected graph throughout the entire swarm. It is though suboptimal in the sense of data propagation efficiency.

### Balanced Solution
In UP4W network, we recommend to apply both strategies by selecting half of peers based on latency and another half based on secure distance.




## Reference
[1] Eclipse Attacks on Bitcoin’s Peer-to-Peer Network https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity15/sec15-paper-heilman.pdf

###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons