##### UPW/Communication/UEP-1: Extended DHT Swarms <br> Rev#0: 3/28/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Extended DHT Swarms

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-1 |
|:----|:-----|

## Motivation
UPW uses the Mainline DHT protocol [1] to discover peers and establish swarms. Being compatible with BitTorrent network 
allows UP4W network to have a robust starting point with millions of existing bittorrent nodes for fast peer
discovery of a particular swarm. 
While, mainline DHT is designed for finding IPs of peers downloading/seeding a particular torrent file.
A few extensions are introduced to facilitate synchronization with data multiplex over stack of sub-protocols.

## Peer Description
In every query and reply message of *get_peers* and *ping*, a `nd` key is added with a fixed 14-bytes binary blob
in the top level dictionary, describes the basic info of the local peer as

```
"... 2:nd14:<protocol_bits:2bytes><reserved:6bytes><local_time:6bytes> ..."
```

Each bit in `protocol_bits` indicates the availability of a specific protocol on the sending peer.
Detailed bitwise definition is standardized in UEP-6. 
`local_time` is a 24-bits little-endian unsigned integer of unix time in millisecond, which is the local unix
time of each sending peer. A zero value indicates its local time is not reliable, or not wish to report.

## App Tag
In every query and reply message, a `app` key is added with a string value in the top level dictionary,
describes the name of high level application as
```
"... 3:app<n:string>:<application_name:string> ..."
```
`n` is the length of the name string.

## Swarm Participation Tag
In any DHT query/reply message, a `swmb` key is added with a fixed `1:1` value in the top level dictionary,
to indicate the swarm participation of the sender peer as
```
"... 4:swmb1:1 ..."
```
Only with the key, the sending peer will be discovered as an active peer and be inserted in active peer list.
When a peer is seeking a swarm for one-time broadcasting/requesting few message instead of joining the swarm, 
the `swmb` key shouldn't be added in the message.


## Transaction ID Encoding
As described in [1], for every query message, a transaction id is attached as the key `t` in the top level dictionary,
with an arbitrary value. The corresponding reply message will echo the value as is by the queried peer.
In UPW, such opaque data echoing in every query message is leveraged to secure the reply and to estimate the rough
round-trip latency of a peer. Transaction id is a 8-byte binary blob as
```
"... 1:t8:<local_magic:2bytes><local_swarm_id:2bytes><local_time:4bytes> ..."
```
`local_magic` is a random number makes counterfeit reply difficult. `local_swarm_id` is a local identifier for
associating a reply message to a specific swarm in local. 
`local_time` is the truncated time in millisecond unit, which is used for latency estimation by comparing
against the local time at arrival of the corresponding reply message.

## Directional Peers 
UPW follow the DHT protocol [1] to discover peers in a given swarm and remembers peers that response.
In addition to that, active peers in UPW are directional. 
The direction between two peer is deterministic and only based on their DHT addresses, which is asymmetric but not transitive.
* **Consistency:**
Direction relationship is asymmetric so that the direction is reciprocal. 
If *A* is a forward peer of *B*, then *B* will always be a backward peer of *A*.
* **Unbiased:**
Direction relationship is not transitive so that, given any address, 
there should be a half of addresses can be its forward peers (another half as backward) in the entire DHT address space.

In UPW, the direction between two distinct addresses is determined as the cyclic-less-than relationship 
by taking 20-byte DHT addresses as little-endian unsigned big integers, which satisfies both above requirements.
```C++
bool is_forward_peer(uint8_t local[20], uint8_t peer[20])
{
    static const uint32_t sign_bit = 0x8000'0000u;
    auto a = ((uint32_t*)local)[4];
    auto b = ((uint32_t*)peer)[4];
	if((a^b) > sign_bit)
	{
		if(a < b)return b - a < sign_bit;
		else return a - b > sign_bit;
	}
	else if(a!=b)return a<b;
    else
    {
        auto* x = (uint64_t*)local;
        auto* y = (uint64_t*)peer;
        if(x[1] != y[1])return x[1] < y[1];
        return x[0] < y[0];
    }
}
```

Any discovered peer will be classified as a *forward* peer, or a *backward* one.
Each swarm will maintain two active peer lists to record the two types of peers, each has limited expectation of peer counts.
Peers in each list are periodically pinged, recycled and refreshed as peers come and go.



## Reference
[1] DHT Protocol (BEP-0005) http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0005.html


###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons