##### UPW/Social/UEP-15: Implicit Recipients <br> Rev#0: 4/17/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Implicit Recipients 

## Motivation
Most of social messages are sent with a specific recipient, or multiple ones. 
End-to-end encryption protects message content but leaves such sender-recipient relationship unprotected, which is required, along with user identities, for relaying a message to the recipient's client by any centralized messaging/social services. 

In UP4W network, both social contents and metadata are protected.
Social metadata including the sender-recipient relationship and their identities are 
available only to users participated in a message as the sender, or one of recipient.

## Contact Point
Contact point `cp` is a 64-bit time-varying number that knows by to a specific pair of
the sender and the recipient as
```
<cp_low:4bytes><cp_high:4bytes>
<cp_low> := crc32c(<epoch:4bytes><secret_low:16bytes><subband:4bytes><epoch:4bytes>)
<cp_high> := crc32c(<epoch:4bytes><secret_high:16bytes><subband:4bytes><epoch:4bytes>)
```
`epoch` is the timestamp is epoch unit as described in (UEP-12), 
`subband` is a random number in a pre-configured range, `secret` is a 32-byte binary data
that is specific to the pair and the sender and the recipient with specific purpose of the contact point.

## Usages

### Direct Messaging
Direct messaging works with SealBox cryptography scheme (`credtype:0x0`, UEP-14).
Contact point for SealBox is computed with the 32-byte `mutual_secret` of the sender-recipient
pair (UEP-13) based on Curve25519 keys `ec_prikey`/`ec_pubkey`, one from the sender and the other from the recipient.

### Adding Contacts
Sending a request for contact adding is based on Sealed Greeting cryptography scheme (`credtype:0x1`, UEP-14). Each anonymous greeting slot is created with a 
time-limited secret, which is used as the `secret` for computing contact points.

### Broadcast in a Shared Swarm
Broadcast in a shared swarm leverage contact points to distinguish the scenario of the 
message (UEP-13), computed with the secret of the instance of the scenario.


## In-Communication
An UPW message is sent with one contact point per recipient attached based on 
current time and a secret specific to the application/scenario. 
The `subband` is a random choice within the pre-configured range. 

As messages are broadcasted in swarms, a peer will maintain a runtime map of
contact points of all possible senders, scenario/greeting entries and all possible 
values of `subband`, which is periodically refreshed in every epoch. 
Incoming messages are matched against the map to resolve the sender, or a particular 
application/scenario. False-positives, extreme rare cases, will be filtered out in 
decryption stage.



###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons