##### UPW/Social/UEP-13: Cryptographic Social Identity <br> Rev#0: 4/14/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Cryptographic Social Identity

## Motivation
Identities represent users on the social network unlike Web 2.0 platforms with centric server for creating, verifying
and authenticating these, identities in UP4W network are generated and authenticated with a fully decentralized way based on cryptography.

In this proposal, ed25519/Curve25519 elliptic-curve cryptography are utilized for identity generation,
digital signing and key-exchange. For simplicity, all cryptography operations are denoted 
as primitives defined by libSodium[1] functions without drilling down the cryptography details.


## Root Secret Seed
A user identity is generated based on a random 27-byte, a.k.a. `root_seed`. 
Base identity, storage keys and application-specific identities of the user are all derived from it.


## Identity
An identity is the ed25519 public key `pubkey` of the ed25519 key-pair generated based on `root_seed` by 
```
crypto_sign_ed25519_seed_keypair(pubkey, prikey, SHA256(root_seed))
```
The `pubkey` represents a user identifier in public and the private key `prikey` is possessed
by the user secretly. `root_seed` is used as the seed for *Base Identity* in fundamental social
capabilities like direct messaging and contact discovery.

### Scenario-Specific Identity
An identity can be representing an instance of specific social scenario,
which is also represented by its `pubkey`. 
Same type of identity based on `ed25519` key-pairs is also used for a user group, a media feed or
a live broadcast. The `prikey` is owned by the creator of such identity and implies privilege of management and moderation.

### Identity Aliasing
A user will use an application-specific alisa in applications for 
security consideration since the private key will be provided to the application.

An identity alias is generated as
```
<seed> := SHA256(<root_seed><app_pubkey>)
crypto_sign_ed25519_seed_keypair(pubkey, prikey, seed)
```
`app_pubkey` is the ed25519 public key for the application.

### DVS Storage Keys
DVS (UEP-20) is a distributed key-value storage protocol with all values authenticated by signatures.
Keys in DVS is an ed25519 public key `data_pubkey` derived based on user's `root_seed` and the `name` of the key as
```
{
    seed = SHA256(<name><root_seed><name>);
    do {
        crypto_sign_ed25519_seed_keypair(data_pubkey, data_prikey, seed);
        seed.dword[0]++;
    }while(data_pubkey.bytes[32] != 0);
}
```
The procedure is to basically search for an ed25519 public key `data_pubkey` with a zero last byte
, which can be used to derive multiple `datakey` by setting last byte to a 0~255 value.
Each one is a storage slot and can be authenticated using the same private key `data_prikey`.

### Backup
The key secret of an identity is the 27-byte `root_seed`, which needs to be kept in a safe place.
A `root_seed` (216 bits) can be represented by 18 english words using mnemonic encoding (UEP-23),
which can be easily recorded on physical materials that is convenient to human.


## Cryptography Primitives
Cryptography primitives are utilized to secure social messaging activities, 
to protect identities and relationships and to facilitate data routing in a fully decentralized manner.

### Digital Signing
A message is authenticated by signing with the private key `prikey` of the user
```
crypto_sign_ed25519_detached(signature, nullptr, msg, msg_size, prikey)
```
Anyone is able to verify the authenticity using the sender's public key `pubkey`
```
crypto_sign_ed25519_verify_detached(signature, msg, msg_size, pubkey) == 0
```
`signature` is a fixed 64-byte binary data, which is typically attached to the message. 

### Asymmetric Cryptography
Data encryption is based on the Curve25519 key-pair, `ec_pubkey` and `ec_prikey`, which can be derived from the ed25519 `pubkey` and `prikey` respectively as
```
crypto_sign_ed25519_pk_to_curve25519(ec_pubkey, pubkey)
crypto_sign_ed25519_sk_to_curve25519(ec_prikey, prikey)
```

An anonymous message can be encrypted using recipient's `ec_pubkey` without authentication as
```
crypto_box_seal(sealed_message, msg, msg_size, ec_pubkey)
```
Only the recipient can decrypt the `sealed_message` using its `ec_prikey` as
```
crypto_box_seal_open(msg, sealed_message, sealed_message_size, ec_pubkey, ec_prikey) == 0
```

### Authenticated Cryptography
An authenticated message can be encrypted using recipient's `ec_pubkey` and sender's `ec_prikey` as
```
crypto_box_beforenm(box, ec_pubkey, ec_prikey)
crypto_box_detached_afternm(mac, sealed_message, msg, msg_size, nonce, box)
```
`box` the a 32-byte intermediate variable, which can be reused for multiple `crypto_box_detached_afternm` invocation. `mac` is a 48-byte authentication output. `nonce` is a 24-byte random binary data.

Only the recipient can decrypt the `sealed_message` and verify the authenticity using its private key `ec_prikey` and the sender's `ec_pubkey` as
```
crypto_box_beforenm(box, ec_pubkey, ec_prikey)
crypto_box_open_detached_afternm(msg, sealed_message, mac, msg, msg_size, nonce, box) == 0
```

### Mutual Secret
A mutual secret is a known shared information only between a sender-recipient pair,
which can be computed with the public key `ec_pubkey` from one party and the private key
`ec_prikey` from the another. 
```
{   
    unsigned char p2[32];
    crypto_scalarmult_curve25519_base(p2, ec_prikey);
    crypto_scalarmult_curve25519(mutual_secret, ec_prikey, ec_pubkey);
    crypto_bitwise_xor(mutual_secret, p2, mutual_secret, 32);
    crypto_bitwise_xor(mutual_secret, ec_pubkey, mutual_secret, 32);
}
```






## Reference
[1] libSodium Documentation https://libsodium.gitbook.io/doc/

###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons