##### UPW/Communication/UEP-7: Fragmented Packets <br> Rev#0: 4/3/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Fragmented Packets

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-7:10B |
|:----|:-----|

## Motivation
UPW protocols utilize UDP socket for communication, which limits the size of each packet under the MTU (e.g. 14xx bytes).
A simple non-interactive packet fragmentation protocol is introduced to allow sending a bit larger packets.

## Fragmentation
An outgoing packet $P$ with length $k\cdot F + s$ will be fragmented to $k+1$ UDP packets 
with following structure:
```
<0x66><seq_no:1byte><signature:8bytes><fragment#0:F bytes> ...
<0x66><seq_no:1byte><signature:8bytes><fragment#x:F bytes> ...
<0x66><seq_no:1byte><signature:8bytes><fragment#k:s bytes>
```
in which $0 < s \le F$, $k>0$ and $F$ is the fixed fragmentation size 1408 (0x580) bytes.
`<0x66>` is the protocol indicator as listed in UEP-5. 
`seq_no` encodes the index of the fragment (lowest 3 bits), and the $k+1$ which is the fragment count, as
```
<index:3bits><k:3bits><reserved:2bits>
```

Note that, receiving of fragmented packet will fail (equivalently packet lost) if any of the fragment
is not received within the assembling time window.
Possibility of such packet lost increases exponentially to the number of fragments, which is limited to 8 
and is recommended to be less than 4.
In theory, assemble failure may also occur in extreme cases that different packets have the same `signature`,
while it is neglected comparing to the possibility of packet lost.


## Assemble 
Receiving of fragmented packets assumes limited delay and tolerates to jitter. Any fragment received will 
start the time-limited assembling procedure with initial $t$ seconds of receiving window. 
Any non-duplicated fragment received will extend the window by another $t$ seconds.
The assembling procedure ends when all fragments are received, or timeout.
The `signature` will be recalculated over the assembled packet, which will be discard silently if unmatched.




###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons