##### UPW/Protocol/UEP-20: Distributed Key-Value Store <br> Rev#0: 4/22/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Distributed Key-Value Store

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-20 |
|:----|:-----|

## Motivation
An authenticated key-value store is a distributed persistent storage (DVS) for user and application data.
For example, user profile, avatar image and contact list are stored and can be retrieved using the corresponding keys.
In a swarm, there are no more than one instance of DVS, which is synchronized across all peers within the swarm.

## Keys, Values and Value Metadata
### Keys
A `datakey` in DVS is 32-byte long. It should be derived from the public key `data_pubkey` of an ed25519 key-pair.
The last byte of that `data_pubkey` must be zero. `datakey` is obtained by taking the first 31 bytes from the
`data_pubkey` and assign an arbitrary value to the last byte. i.e.
```
<datakey:32bytes> := <pubkey[0..30]:31bytes><storage_slot:1byte>
```
This allows the owner of an ed25519 pair to sign for up to 256 `datakey`s using the same single private key `data_prikey`,
with different value of `storage_slot`. These slots can for example be used to store various information (e.g. profile,
avatar, etc.) of the same user.

Any `data_pubkey` / `data_prikey` pair could be used as long as the last bit of `data_prikey` is 0.
However, it's recommended to follow Cryptographic User Identity (UEP-13) if the keys are to be derived from a single `root_seed`.

### Values
Every `datakey` is a storage slot for an arbitrary value `datavalue` authenticated by signing with the private key `data_prikey`.
The size of `datavalue` is limited to 16MB.

### Value Metadata
To allow value update, anti-spamming and authentication, a fixed-size structure `datavalue_md` is introduced
to describe the value of a key:
```
<datavalue_md:128bytes> := <ts:6bytes><flags:2bytes><size:4bytes><hash:32bytes><sig:64bytes><ttl_begin:8bytes><ttl:4bytes><pow_nonce:8bytes>
```
where:
* `ts` is the timestamp of the value, in milliseconds;
* `flags` is a bit-mask of various flags;
* `size` is the size of the value, in bytes;
* `hash` is the SHA-256 hash of the value: `hash = SHA256(datavalue)`;
* `sig` is the signature obtained by signing `datakey`, `ts`, `flags`, `size` and `hash` packed together,
using `data_prikey`: `sig = data_prikey.sign(<datakey><ts><flags><size><hash>)`;
* `ttl_begin` is the start of time-to-live, in milliseconds;
* `ttl` is the time-to-live of the message, in days;
* `pow_nonce` is used to construct the proof-of-work will be discussed later.

#### Flags
The `flags` field of `datavalue_md` is a combination of bit flags:
| Bit | Meaning |
|:---:|---------|
|  0  | When set, the value is stored in plain format, otherwise it's ciphered, which is the default behavior. (UEP-23)  |

## Messages
DVS messages are application level messages built above the Swarm Broadcast Protocol,
therefore they are all proceeded by the swarm broadcast header as specified in UEP-10.

The size of a DVS message is always within a single MTU. All DVS messages have a common header as:
```
<header> := <0x6b><opcode:1byte>
```
`<0x6b>` is the protocol indicator as listed in UEP-5, `opcode` defines the actual operation and data structure of the packet.

### Broadcast the metadata of a new / updated key (UPDATE, `opcode:0x6e`)
Push the metadata of a value to remote peers for broadcasting a new / updated key.
```
"<header><datakey:32bytes><datavalue_md:128bytes>"
```
Up on receiving such a message, a peer is expected to first verify the validity, including checking if the signature is
valid and nonce is satisfying the proof-of-work requirement. If the peer already has a `datavalue_md` for the `datakey`
locally, it should compare it with the incoming one and only accept it if it's newer.

After an incoming `datavalue_md` is accepted, a peer is expected to forward the same message to other peers that it's
connected to.

### Syncing metadata of keys (SYNC, `opcode:0x6b`)
Synchronizes value metadata of specific keys between two peers.
```
"<header>[<datakey:32bytes><datavalue_md:128bytes>:*]"
```
A peer can send this message to a remote peer to sync the metadata of specific `datakey`s. After the header is an array
of `datakey` and `datavalue_md` pairs until the end of message that the peer wants to sync. After each `datakey`, the
corresponding latest `datavalue_md` should be appended. If a peer wants to sync a key which it doesn't have a
`datavalue_md` yet, it can fill it with 0s.

Up on receiving this sync message, a peer should go through the list and check if each `datavalue_md` should be accepted,
using the same criteria as when receiving an UPDATE message. After that, if any of the received metadata is older than the
corresponding `datavalue_md` it already has, it should compose a SYNC message containing those key & metadata and send it
back to the other peer.

### Differentiate aggregated metadata CRCs between nodes (CRC_DIFF, `opcode:0x74`)
Differentiates the CRC of metadata between two peers. It helps to find out which `datavalue_md`s are different on the two peers.
```
"<header><prefix_len:1byte><prefix:prefix_len bytes><crc:4bytes>[<child_crc:4bytes>:256]"
```
`prefix_len` is the length of the prefix and can be at most 32. For each `datakey` that starts with `prefix`,
the crc32 of its `datavalue_md` is calculated, all these CRCs are XORed together to calculate `crc`, i.e.
```
uint32 calc_crc(string prefix)
{
	uint32 crc = 0;
	for (key : all_keys) {
		if (key.starts_with(prefix))
			crc = crc ^ CRC32(datavalue_md[key]);
	}
	return crc;
}
```
 `child_crc` is an array of 256 elements, each is calculated similarly by appending a corresponding byte to `prefix`,
 i.e. `child_crc[i] = calc_crc(<prefix:prefix_len bytes><i:1byte>)`

When a peer receives CRC_DIFF, it compares the CRCs in the message with its locally calculated values. If there's any
mismatch, it sends a CRC_DIFF for each different `child_crc` to the other peer. The two peers iterate until the prefix
length reaches 32 and then a SYNC message is sent to synchronize the corresponding metadata.

## Value Data Transfer and Store
Gossip Data Protocol (UEP-11) is used for transferring value data.
All value data are stored in a unified storage without distinguishing their originated swarms. 
After a new or updated value is broadcasted, the actual value will be pushed.
As for Gossip Data Protocol stack, inbound blob pushing will be accepted and followed with pulling
of the rest of data, only if its `hash` is already discovered from a key's `datavalue_md`.

When a `hash` is discovered from a valid value update / sync message,
the actual data will be pulled, indexed by `hash` and stored in local until expiration.
When multiple keys have the same `hash` in their `datavalue_md`, the existing data will be reused
even if it was downloaded for other swarms.

### Anti-Spamming
In consistent with DAGM, anti-spamming is also considered for storing value data.
Similar proof-of-work approach is utilized to prevent exhaustive spamming, whose difficulty is proportional
to the size and alive duration. A *work* is computed over the following fields in `datavalue_md` as
```
<work:32bytes> := SHA256(<pow_nonce:8bytes><ts:6bytes><flags:2bytes><size:4bytes><hash:32bytes><ttl_begin:8bytes>)
```
Proof-of-work is solved by finding a `pow_nonce` increasing from a random initialization that
makes `Work` less than a `pow_target` by comparing as 32-bytes big unsigned integers.
```
pow_target = (1<<256)/(1000000 + size * ttl)
```
Note that in `datavalue_md`, the `ttl_begin`, `ttl` and `nonce` fields are not included in the signature in `sig`,
this allows any user to extend the `ttl` of an existing `datakey` without knowing the corresponding `data_prikey`.


###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons