##### UPW/Core/UEP-21: Core Social APIs <br> Rev#0: 4/22/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Revise


# Core Social APIs

## Motivation
It is a foundation local APIs of a UP4W node provides a light-weight interface for application integration in local host.

## Invocation Models
Two API invocation models are supported, a synchronous query-response paired model via HTTP
and an asynchronous multiplex messaging model via WebSocket and Named Pipes.
All queries are Json 


### Synchronous Invocation
A query will be made in JSON with the `module.action` string and optionally arguments `arg`.
```
{
    "req": "<module.action>",
    "arg": { ... }
}
```
A response will be also in JSON, or other type of content like image binary data.
```
{
    "req": "<module.action>"
    "ret": { ... }
}
```
If any error occurred, the error code and message will be appended in addition to the `module.action` as
```
{
    "rsp": "<module.action>",
    "err": error_code,
    "ret": "<error_explanation>"
}
```
Synchronous invocation is made via HTTP with POST verb and the JSON query will be HTTP request body.
The query can also be encoded in query part of the URL like
```
http://localhost/api?req=<module.action>&inc=xxxxxx&arg={...}
```
All top-level json keys are converted to parameters in URL query key-value pairs with all values 
in JSON format. Note that the `arg` key must be the last query parameter.
Alternatively, HTTP request body, if available, is the value of the `arg` key if it is not specified
in the HTTP query parameter.

### Asynchronous Invocation
A query in asynchronous invocation has an invocation nonce `inc` as
```
{
    "req": "<module.action>",
    "inc": "<invocation_nonce>",
    "arg": { ... }
}
```
A `inc` is an arbitrary string within 16 characters to pair with the response message as
```
{
    "rsp": "<module.action>",
    "inc": "<invocation_nonce>",
    "fin": false/true,
    "ret": { ... }
}
```
`inc` will always be exactly the one in request json no matter a single or multiple responses are 
generated. 
The Json key `fin` indicates whether more messages will be responded regarding the invocation of `invocation_nonce`.
Response messages can be actively pushed without a request, which have only `rsp` and `ret` keys in the message.

## Instance Management
### Version (`req:"core.ver"`)
Get version and build information of the peer, no arguments.

Return:
```
"version x.x, build ..."
```

### Initialize (`req:"core.init"`)
Initialize all desired modules.

Arguments:
```
{
    "app_name" : "<application_name>",
    "mrc" : {
        msgs_dir: "<local_directory>|:mem",
        media_dir: "<local_directory>|:mem",
        default_swarm: "<dht_address_base16>",
        flags: ["delay_load","<db_dedicate|db_separate|db_single>"]
    },
    "dvs" : {
        kv_dir: "<local_directory>|:mem",
        flags: ["delay_load","<db_dedicate|db_separate|db_single>"]
    },
    "hob": {},
    "lsm": {},
    "mlt": {},
    "gdp": {},
    "pbc": {}
}
```
* `app_name` is the name of the application, instances with different `app_name` will not discover each other in nearby peers (UEP-8)
* `mrc` initialize message relay core (UEP-12), `msgs_dir` specifies the storage directory for saving pooled messages, or 
its value can be `:mem` to just memory for temporary storage. 
* `media_dir` specifies storage directory for saving offload media, if specified, the distributed media store (UEP-16) will
be initialized as well.
* `dvs` initialize distributed key-value store (UEP-20) with `kv_dir` specifies the storage directory, or memory.
* `flags` 
    * "delay_load" indicates the `media` db or the `kv` db is not loaded when initialization
    * "db_dedicate" two db on disk, one for default swarm, another for all non-default ones (merged)
    * "db_separated" one separated db on disk for every swarm
    * "db_merged" a single db for all swarms (merged)
* `hob` enable packet obfuscation (UEP-6).
* `lsm` initialize nearby peers module (UEP-8).
* `mlt` enable multi-link tunnels (UEP-??).
* `gdp` initialize gossip data protocol (UEP-11), it will be automatically initialized if `mrc` or `dvs` is specified.
* `pbc` enable packet bouncer (UEP-??).

Return:
```
{
    "mod1": true/false,
    ...
}
```
Initialization is successful, or not, for each desired module.

### Load All Delayed Modules (`req:"core.load_delayed"`)
Load db of modules that are delay loaded, no arguments.

Return:
```
{
    "mod1": true/false,
    ...
}
```
Loading is successful, or not, for each delay-loaded module.

### Shutdown (`req:"core.shutdown"`)
Uninitialize the UPW stacks, no arguments, no return.
Shutdown is unrecoverable, it makes no sense to invoke `core.init` again.

## Contact Management

### Set Myself (`req:"social.signin"`)
Set current sign-in user, no return. Current contact list will be empty.

Arguments:
```
{
    seed: "<secret_seed_base64>",
    mnemonic: "18_mnemonic_phrases",
    profile: {
        name: "<string>",
        gender: <gender_id>,
        geolocation: <geo_id>
    }
}
```
`seed` is the 28-byte root seed and `mnemonic` is its mnemonic encoding (UEP-13).
Only one of `seed` and `mnemonic` is required to be specified.

### Add a User (`req:"social.add_user"`)
Add a new user in the contact list, no return. 
This method will not send a greeting message to the user.

Arguments:
```
{
    pk: "<public_key_base64>",
    name: "<string>",
    gender: <gender_id>,
    geolocation: <geo_id>,
    greeting_secret: "base64"
}
```
`greeting_secret` is the greeting secret required for adding a new friend, optional.

### Remove a User (`req:"social.remove_user"`)
Remove an existing user, no return.

Arguments:
```
{
    pk: "<public_key_base64>"
}
```

## Swarm Operation

### Join a Swarm (`req:"swarm.join"`)
Join a swarm and initialize swarm-specific protocols, no return.

Arguments:
```
{
    alias: "alias_of_the_swarm",
    address: "dht_address_base16",
    secret: "secret_of_private_swarm_base64",
    msgs: 
    {
        epoch: epoch_unit_millisec,
        ttl: max_ttl_in_epoch,
        subband: subband_range,
        media_sizemax: size,
        active: true/false
    },
    dvs: 
    {
        value_sizemax: size
    }
}
```
* `alias` 
* `address` the 20-byte DHT address of the swarm in base16
* `secret` the 32-byte private swarm secret in base64, optional. If specified, the swarm will be private swarm
* `epoch` the epoch unit in millisecond for the DAGM (UEP-12)
* `ttl` the max TTL in epoch for the DAGM
* `subband` the range of the subband, should be 2^n.
* `media_sizemax` the maximum size of attached media in messages, unspecified or 0 indicates media attachment is not allowed
* `active` inbound message will be pushed as a (`rsp:"msg_received"`) message (UEP-22) if decryption succeeded
*  `value_sizemax` the maximum size of values in DVS (UEP-20)

### Leave a Swarm (`req:"swarm.leave"`)
Leave a swarm, no return.
```
"<dht_address_base16>"
```

## Distributed Key-Value Storage

### Set Value (`req:"netkv.set"`)
Set a value, no return.

Arguments:
```
{
    key: "datakey_in_base64",
    slot: slot_num,
    ttl: ttl_in_seconds,
    value: "value_in_base64",
    secret: "secret_in_base64"
}
```
* `key` the 32-byte datakey in base 64 (UEP-20)
* `slot` the storage slot of the value (0~255)
* `ttl` the TTL in seconds of the value
* `value` the value data in base64
* `secret` the AES secret for value encryption, optional.

### Get Value (`req:"netkv.get"`)
Get a value.

Arguments:
```
{
    key: "datakey_in_base64",
    slot: slot_num,
    secret: "secret_in_base64",
    raw: true
}
```
* `key` the 32-byte datakey in base 64 (UEP-20)
* `slot` the storage slot of the value (0~255)
* `secret` the secret for value encryption, optional.
* `raw` indicate the response to be the raw binary media data, optional and synchronous invocation only


Return:
if the value is not encrypted, or correct secret is provided:
```
"<base64_encoded_media_data>"
```

if, `raw` is true, the response is just the raw binary data without the json formatted response encapsulation.

### Tracking a Key (`req:"netkv.track"`)
Tracking modification of a Key, no immediate return.
All tracked keys will be cleared if a different user is signed in (`social.set_myself`)

Arguments:
```
[
    {   key: "datakey_in_base64",
        slot: slot_num
    }, ...
]
```

### Keeping a Key alive (`req:"netkv.keepalive"`)
Tracking TTL of a Key, and submit new proof-of-work to extend it to avoid being retired,  no return.
All keepalive keys will be cleared if a different user is signed in (`social.set_myself`)
```
[
    {   key: "datakey_in_base64",
        slot: slot_num
    }, ...
]
```

###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons