##### UPW/Protocol/UEP-10: Swarm Messaging <br> Rev#0: 4/4/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Swarm Messaging

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-7:10B | UEP-10 |
|:----|:-----|:-----|


## Motivation
The major communication in UP4W network is to push a message that reaches all online peers in the swarm, which
ensures the data availability in the swarm and conceals the sender's device by acting as a relayer like the rest of peers.
The protocol largely follows the epidemic algorithms [1] with enhanced directional relaying. 

Pulling communication towards a few peers is a complementary way for synchronization of specific missing data.
Since a peer may joining multiple swarms simultaneously, an inbound message should carry information 
to distinguish a swarm without leaking the actual identifier of it.

## Message
```
"<0x62><swarm_sig:7bytes><payload:* bytes>"
```
`<0x62>` is the protocol indicator as listed in UEP-5. 
 `swarm_sig` is the matching signature to identify the target swarm, which is calculated as
 ```
 swarm_sig = crc64(<dht_address:20bytes>, (timestamp&0xfff'ffff)|(subband<<28))>>8
 ```
`subband` is a 4-bit random number, which are combined with truncated timestamp as the initial value for crc64.
`timestamp` is a little-endian unsigned integer represents the unix time in 16384 millisecond unit.

### Private Swarm
For private swarm (UEP-4), `swarm_sig` is calculated as
```
swarm_sig = crc64(<dht_address:20bytes><secret:20bytes>, (timestamp&0xfff'ffff)|(subband<<28))>>8
```

## Relay
On receiving of a new packet, the message will be validated and processed by upper-level stack and possibly 
relaying of the payload will be initiated.
Swarm broadcast protocol will multi-cast the packet with swarm messaging header
to all **forward** DHT peers (described in UEP-1) and all nearby peers.



## Receiving Dispatch
A peer is required to maintain a global table to match against the `swarm_sig` in any inbound broadcast packet
for dispatching. 32 entries for each swarm is needed for all possible `swarm_sig` computed based on combinations
 of (`timestamp`, `timestamp-1`) and possible values of `subband`, 
 which will be refreshed roughly every minute (16.4 seconds).


## Reference
[1] Epidemic algorithms for replicated database maintenance https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/courses/dd/papers/demers-epidemic.pdf

###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons