##### UPW/Core/UEP-22: Core Social Messaging APIs <br> Rev#0: 4/23/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Revise


# Core Social Messaging APIs

## Motivation
Local APIs of a UP4W node for sending and receiving messages.


## Receiving 

### On Message Received (`rsp:"msg.received"`)
A pushed return when a new message inbounds. 

Return:
```
{
    swarm: " ... ",
    id: "id_of_msg",
    timestamp: time_millisecond,
    sender: "pubkey_base64",
    app: application_id,
    recipient: "pubkey_base64",
    action: opcode,
    content: { ... }/" ... ",
    content_type: type,
    media: ["blob_hash1","blob_hash2", ... ]
}
```
* `swarm` the swarm DHT address in base16, or the alias as set by join swarm request (`req:"swarm.join"`, UEP-21)
* `id` the id of the message in the scope of current swarm, a `uint64_t` in string.
* `timestamp` of the message in millisecond
* `sender`: the public key of the sender in base64
* `app` the built-in application id, an `uint16_t` 
* `action` the operation code specific to the application, an `uint16_t`
* `recipient` stands for the recipient, which is a user's `pubkey` or that of a scenario-specific identity (UEP-13)
* `content` the content of the message can be parsed object, a plain text, or a base64 string according to `app` and `action`
* `content_type` the type of the content (UEP-17)
* `media` attached media blobs
Note that, a pair of `<timestamp, crc>` is used to uniquely identify a message.

### Enable Message Receive Push (`req:"msg.receive_push"`)
Enable push message of selected application messages on current connection, no return

Arguments:
```
{
    conversation: "pubkey_base64",
    app: application_id,
}
```
All keys are optional, if set, only matched messages are pushed.


### Get Pooled Messages (`req:"msg.get_pooled"`)
Fetch unexpired messages with selective filters.

Arguments 1:
```
{
    swarm: " ... ",
    id: "id_of_msg"
    timestamp: msg_time
}
```
Arguments 2:
```
{
    swarm: " ... ",
    timestamp: [ time_begin, time_end ],
    recipient: "pubkey_base64",
    app: application_id,
    action: [ opcode1, opcode2, ... ],
    limit: maximum_number_of_messages,
    bundled: true/false
}
```
* `swarm` the swarm DHT address in base16, or the alias as set by join swarm request (`req:"swarm_join"`, UEP-21)
* `id` the identifier of the message, will only return a single message
* `timestamp` the time range in millisecond
* `recipient` the application-specific conversation id of the message
* `app` the application id
* `limit` limit the total number of message to be fetched
* `action` a list of opcodes to be matched

When multiple messages are returned, either bundled or not, messages with timestamp > `time_begin` and <= `time_end` 
will be returned in chronological order if `time_begin` < `time_end`. 
Otherwise, ones with timestamp >= `time_end` and < `time_begin` are returned with reversed chronological order.

Return 1: <br> If `bundled=false`, multiple returns will be responded, which is allowed in asynchronous invocation mode only.
```
{
    id: "id_of_msg",
    timestamp: time_millisecond,
    sender: "pubkey_base64",
    app: application_id,
    action: opcode,
    recipient: "pubkey_base64",
    content: { ... }/" ... ",
    content_type: type,
    media: ["blob_hash1_base64","blob_hash2_base64", ... ]
}
```
Return 2: <br> If `bundled=true` or in synchronous invocation mode, 
a single returns will be responded combining all selected messages as an array. Each one is a Json object as in Return 1.
```
[ { msg1 }, { msg2 }, ... ]
```

### Get Offloaded Media Data Availability (`req:"msg.get_media_state"`, `req:"msg.track_media_state"`)
Get the state of an offloaded media data. 

Arguments:
```
"blob_hash_base64"
```

Return:
```
{
    hash: "blob_hash_base64",
    content_type: type_uint8,
    size: uint32,
    availability: true/false,
    progress: percentage_float
}
```
`availability` indicate the media data is fully downloaded, otherwise it will be `false`.
If not and the media data is being downloading,
`progress` indicate the the percentage of the downloading, ranged in 0 ~ 100.

For `get_media_state` request, a single response will be generated. While, `track_media_state` request
generates a response per-second as the downloading the media data is in progress.


### Fetch Offloaded Media Data (`req:"msg.get_media"`, `req:"msg.get_media_raw"`)
Get the actual media data.

Arguments 1:
```
"blob_hash_base64"
```
Arguments 2:
```
{
    hash: "blob_hash_base64",
    await: 1000,
    priority: 90
}
```
`await` indicates a long-wait response is allowed if the data is not available right now, optional. 
its value specifies the timeout in milliseconds.
`priority` (1~100) specifies the priority of downloading, optional, default is 90.

Return of `get_media` request:
```
"media_data_base64"
```
Return of `get_media_raw` is just the raw binary data without textual encoding or the json formatted
response encapsulation. It is allowed only for synchronous invocation mode.


## Sending
Send a message with different types of payload to a specific recipient or just to the open public.
All invocation returns message `id` if succeeded as
Return
```
{
    swarm: "dht_address_base16",
    id: "id_of_msg",
    timestamp: msg_time
}
```

### Send a Text Message (`req:"msg.text"`)
Send a text message to a specific recipient.

Arguments
```
{
    swarm: "dht_address_base16",
    recipient: "pubkey_base64",
    app: application_id,
    action: opcode,
    content: "text",
    content_type: type,
}
```


### Send an Image Message (`req:"msg.image"`)

### Send an Audio Message (`req:"msg.audio"`)



###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons