##### UPW/Communication/UEP-8: Nearby Peers <br> Rev#0: 3/28/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Nearby Peers

| UEP-6:2B | UEP-8 |
|:----|:-----|


## Motivation
Nearby peers are peers connected in the same local area network with wired ethernet or WIFI. 
Most routers are configured to avoid loopback by sending packet to the external public IP from 
one peers to another in the same local area network, which prevent these peers from discovering each other
in the DHT network. 

A simple protocol is introduced for discovering peers in the local area network. 

## Peer Discovery
Any peer in the local network will create a *discovery socket* and listen at a local available port ranged
from `8032` to `8040` for receiving the discovery broadcast from other nearby peers.
A peer discovery attempt is done by sending nine broadcast packets towards all possible ports
using the broadcast address in the local network.
For multi-hole devices, multiple discovery sockets should be created for each hole that is
connected to local area network, and the broadcasts should be sent to each hole for discovery.

A replied message will carries a list of peers that introduced by the sender including itself.
Note that, the address of peer's *primary socket* is recorded in the list instead of
the address of the discovery socket. 

Newly introduced peer will be pinged and any peer replied via its primary socket will be discovered
and remembered in nearby peer list. Discovered nearby peers will be periodically pinged again for
latency estimation and offline detection. 

## Messages
Peer discovery communication involves several message of query and reply. All messages have a common header as
```
<msg_header> := <0x6c><version:1byte><opcode:1byte><flag:1byte><app_name:8bytes>
```
`0x6c` is the protocol indicator as listed in UEP-5, `version` is 0x01 for now. `app_name` is the name
of the high level application. Peers with different `app_name` will be not discovered as nearby peers.
`opcode` defines the purpose and also determines
the data structure of the rest of the message after the common message header.

### Peer Exchange (`opcode:0x01,0x02`)
Peer-exchange message is sent to introduce nearby peers discovered to other peers. `opcode(0x01)` indicates
a query and expects the recipient to reply with another peer-exchange message with `opcode(0x02)`. 
Both query (`0x01`) and reply (`0x02`) messages carry a list of nearby peers with the same data structure as
```
"<msg_header><checksum:8bytes><count:2bytes>[<net_address:6/18bytes>:count]"
```
It is a variable length data with an array of network address of introduced peers.
`checksum` is computed using `crc64` over the array `<count:2bytes>[<net_address:6/18bytes>:count]` with 
an initial value $2,150,809,327$. `net_address` is a pair of ip address and port, which is
`<ip:4bytes><port:2bytes>` for IPv4 and `<ip:16bytes><port:2bytes>` for IPv6.

Peer-exchange messages are sent over the discovery socket including the subnet broadcast to collect peers for discovery.

### Ping-Pong (`opcode:0x03,0x04`)
After a peer is introduced, it will be pinged with a `opcode(0x03)` message. 
The peer will be discovered with a valid pong message `opcode(0x04)` and be remembered in nearby peer list.
Both ping and pong messages have the same data structure as
```
<msg_header><timestamp:8bytes><originate_net_address:6/18bytes><dht_address:20bytes><peer_desc:14bytes>
```
`dht_address` is the DHT address of the sender and `peer_desc` is basic information about the sender peer, which is
defined in UEP-1 (Peer Description).
In ping message, `timestamp` is the local unix time in millisecond of the sender and `originate_net_address` is ignored.
In pong message, `timestamp` is copied from the ping message so that the latency can be estimated by ping sender.
`originate_net_address` is the direct network address
that the ping message is received from. A ping sender can detect network address translation in intranet based on it.

Ping-pong messages are sent over the primary socket, which actually discover peers. Besides new peers are
introduced, ping-pong messages are sent periodically to detect peer offline.


###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons