##### UPW/Social/UEP-18: Tiny Chat Group <br> Rev#0: 4/20/2023 by Core Dev Team <br> Status: Deploy


# Tiny Chat Group

## Motivation
A simple built-in application for group chatting within a small number of users based on 1:n messaging protocol.


## Contact Group
A group can be created by any user with a random `root_seed` similar to identity creation (UEP-13).
The derived `group_pubkey` will be the identity of the group. 
In addition, a random 16-byte `group_address` will be generated to refer the group in message metadata.

Sending a message in tiny chat group uses SealBox cryptography scheme (UEP-14) as an 1:n message.
All group members will be listed as recipients except the sender.

## Group Information Attachment
For every chat message in tiny chat group, a *Tiny Group Information* (`bit#0`) attachment should be available in 
the *Message Metadata* payload (UEP-14), which is defined as
```
<group_address:16bytes><last_modified:6bytes><geolocation:2bytes><social_flag:1byte><membership_infobits:1byte>[<membership_block>:popcount()]
```
Membership information is a composite structure of multiple information blocks. 
`membership_infobits` indicates the availability of each blocks. 
Depending on remaining bytes available after other payload of a message is composed, none, some or all blocks 
will be included to avoid exceeding the size limit of an application message.

### Membership (`bit#0`)
The fundamental membership information.
```
<group_pubkey:32bytes><membership_version:2bytes><admin_index:1byte><member_count:1byte>[<member>:member_count]
<member>: = <pubkey:32bytes><pubdatakey:32bytes><join_time:6bytes>
```
`membership_version` is the version of the membership, which increases each time the membership is modified.
`admin_index` is an index in the member list which is the group admin.
`[<member>]` array is a list of all members including the sender and sorted in ascendent order of member's `pubkey`.
`join_time` is the time when a member joined the group. Only messages with the sender in the list will be accepted.


### All Names (`bit#1`)
Names of the group and all members.
```
<size:2bytes><group_name:* bytes><0x0>[<member_name:* bytes><0x0>]
```
`size` is the length of all strings including zero terminators, followed by zero-separated strings.
First string is the group name, the rest strings are names of all members.

### Group Name Only (`bit#2`)
This is a flag indicates only group name is embedded in *All Names* block.


## Control Messages
Group and its membership are controlled by messages with `scenario:0x1` and corresponding `act` codes for different operations.
Except group creation message (`act:0x3000`), group information will be attached represent the state of the group
before a control message taking effect.

### Group Creation (`act:0x3000`)
The control message sent to the creator itself for creating a new group involves `involve_count` users besides creator as
```
<root_seed:28bytes><group_address:16bytes><user_list>
<user_list> := <count:1byte>[<pubkey:32bytes><pubdatakey:32bytes>:count]
```
`user_list` are initially involved users in the group excluding the creator. 
Creator will be the admin of the newly created group.


### Adding New Members (`act:0x3001`)
New group member can be added by any existing member by sending the control message to all group members as
```
<user_list>
```

### Expelling Existing Members (`act:0x3002`)
Existing members can be expelled by any existing member by sending the control message to all group members as
```
<count:1byte>[<index:1byte>:count]
```
`index` refers to the existing ordered member list. Expelling admin is not allowed.

### Leaving the Group (`act:0x3003`)
An existing member with `pubkey` may leave the group, and notifies the rest of existing members by sending:
```
<leave_signature:64bytes> := sign(<group_pubkey:32bytes><group_address:16bytes><timestamp:6bytes><pubkey:32bytes>)
```
`leave_signature` is the signature data that signed by the member willing to leave.

### Disband the Group (`act:0x3004`)
The group admin is allow to disband the group and notifies will group members by sending:
```
<disband_signature:64bytes> := sign(<group_pubkey:32bytes><group_address:16bytes><timestamp:6bytes><'disband'>)
```
`disband_signature` is the signature data that signed by the group admin.


###### Copyright waived via Creative Commons